### [<<< BACK](http://phonebookfs.azurewebsites.net/)  (to application)

# Phonebook Full-Stack

Tapio Mäntysalo, Full Stack 2, UTU, 2020

**Front/Back exercises, part 3 final**

## Application
http://phonebookfs.azurewebsites.net/

This is a demo CRUD phonebook directory application (without Update).

If name or telephone number already exists in the directory, the app informs the user and does not add the entry.

If name or telephone number is missing, app will not add an entry.

Enter key or Add button adds the entry to the directory.

There is a quick search box, which allows you to quickly find the name OR number you are looking for.

When adding new persons, cursor/focus is moved to the first field (name) after Enter, for easy adding of next entry.

In case of a problem, cursor is moved to the input box with the problem.

Telephone number and name are not validated, just trimmed.

Each entry has a unique id, generated by database.

Entries can be deleted with the trash can icon.

There is a documentation drop-down in the code, which build-time autogenerated Typedoc docs.

When adding or deleting persons, the phonebook data is refreshed completely from the database, as the element id is database generated.

CORS is not used in production, as this would not be generally safe.

### Git
https://gitlab.utu.fi/dfte/fullstack-2020/web-basics/phonebook-fullstack

### Debugging
Backend: 
```
Launch Backend 
```
Frontend: 
```
> npm client
Launch Frontend
```
You can debug and hit breakpoints in both backend and frontend simultaneously.

CORS is used only when host name contains 'LAPTOP', i.e. locally on authors machine.

In the frontend side, there are some Jest unit tests. You can run them with 
```
> cd client
> npm run test
```

### Run deployment version locally
```
> npm start
```
### Build deployment version
Front-end, backend and source documentation. Do this before deployment. And push to Git.
```
> npm run build-all
```
Back-end only (with docs)
```
> npm run build-server
```
Front-end only (with docs and unit tests)
```
> npm run build-client
```
Cloud deployment server will use
```
> npm run build
> npm start
```
Note that building frontend clears backend docs.

### Source code documentation
Click **Documentation** in the application to open this view.

Open the hamburger menu -^ (if you're on mobile) or side bar to browse public components/methods.

### What else?
* Typescript was used in both backend and frontend.
* Bootstrap-react was used for UI.
* Azure App Service used as platform.
* I tried to follow recommended practices in backend and frontend as much as I could find info.
* Some small front-end methods have jest tests, but this was rather trivial project code-wise (not configuration-wise), so I didn't do more unit tests.

### What is missing
* Concurrent users. If there would be more than one user, there would be view sync issues: For example, when one adds a person, the display of the other client would not be auto-updated. This should be taken account in design.
* Validation. There is no phone number validation, for example. Also, there should be validation in the database side also for valid data - never trust the client!
* Authorization. This kind of system is open for anyone anywhere to read and write.
* Unit tests for UI. Jest has capabilities to run unit tests on components also, but this was not tried out. Also backend is very simple and didn't now have any unit tests.

### Finally
Thank you, this was fun.